Comm Call - January 2025 - First time contributors (#927)
ropensci/roweb3: content/commcalls/2025-01-20/index.md

---
title: "From Novice to Contributor: Making and Supporting First-Time Contributions to FOSS"
dateStart: 2025-01-20T16:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2025-01-20T17:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2025-01-20T17:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
publishDate: 2025-01-20
description: ""
author:
  - Yi-Chin Sunny Tseng

>   - Yaoxiang Li

Reviewer: We need author pages for Yaoxiang Li and Pascal Burkhard

    avian acoustics. She enjoys the welcoming community that open-source science brings to her career. 
    Sunny is also a scientific infographic designer, blending art with conservation research. 
    As a 2023-2024 rOpenSci Champion, she recently released her first R package, bbsTaiwan, 
    linking her passion for open science with her Taiwanese roots—and featuring her bird art 
    as the logo."
    img: /img/team/sunny-tseng.jpg
  - name: "Yaoxiang Li"
    bio: "Yaoxiang Li is a Senior Bioinformatician at Georgetown University. 
    He has extensive experience in developing R packages, 
    focusing on making complex bioinformatics data accessible. 
    He is passionate about improving open-source software quality, 
    supporting new contributors, and promoting reproducibility in computational biology. 
    Yaoxiang is deeply interested in both statistical theory and the application 
    of machine learning in biomedical research. 
    He has made significant contributions to the R ecosystem, 
    including co-authoring several rOpenSci packages and contributing 
    to R-core through bug fixes."
    img: /img/community/yaoxiang-li.jpg
  - name: "Pascal Burkhard"

>     bio: "I'm a geography and computer science teacher in a Swiss high school. 
>     I have been using R for about 15 year now. 
>     I mostly do visualizations for my lessons (graphs and maps). 
>     I'm also a big fan of Quarto to create documents, presentations and books 
>     that can all be organized into clean websites to use as a teaching platform."

Reviewer: For consistency with the other bios (third person)
```suggestion
    bio: "Pascal is a geography and computer science teacher in a Swiss high school, and
    has been using R for about 15 years now. 
    Pascal mostly does visualizations for lessons (graphs and maps), but is 
    also a big fan of Quarto to create documents, presentations and books 
    that can all be organized into clean websites to use as a teaching platform."
```

    img: /img/community/pascal-burkhard.png   
  - name: "Hugo Gruson"

>     bio: ""

Author: ```suggestion
    bio: "Hugo Gruson is an evolutionary biologist who fell in love with R and R package development during his PhD. He is now working full-time as an R package developer, with a current focus on making the ecosystem of R packages for epidemiology more robust."
```

    img: /img/community/hugo-gruson.jpg    
tags:
  - community call
  - events
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 82222962127
    Passcode: 393120
zoomurl: https://numfocus-org.zoom.us/j/82222962127?pwd=P93L8kALJvYfzFJzv0UoRarNqCRpt8.1
---

Contributing to open source can be very rewarding, but also incredibly intimidating. 
When we asked about first time contributions on the rOpenSci Slack, 
people recalled the challenges and mistakes they made, 
but mostly how much they learned from and enjoyed that experience.

In this community call moderated by Hugo Gruson, our speaker, 

> Yaoxiang Li will share Best Practices and Advanced Techniques for Supercharging 
> R Package Quality with testthat, Pascal Burkhard will discuss is the basic git 

Reviewer: I think we need a bit of "first-time contribution" context
```suggestion
Yaoxiang Li will discus the importance of tests with respect to first-time contributions, and share best practices and advanced techniques for supercharging 
R package quality with testthat, Pascal Burkhard will discuss is the basic git 
```
